# Reckon

This repository supports **Eric Culm**'s [Reckon](http://www.krisispublishing.com//release), released under [Krisis Publishing](http://www.krisispublishing.com/).
In this Replicate demo you can use the Reckon engine to generate sound dreams, exploiting the same pretrained models that I created to compose the *X*, *Y* and *Z* axes of the album release.

Feel free to use this code as a creative tool. You can think of it as a **neural synthesizer** that generates *sound dreams of an AI*. You are allowed and encouraged to download the audio generated by Reckon and use it in your own music. Please, cite me if you do so.

## Description

Reckon is an algorithmic system aimed at making tangible, in acoustic terms, the dream of an *Artificial Intelligence* .
The audio information is entirely generated by a *digital dreaming apparatus*. Inside the latter, the psychic operations of sensorial memories re-elaboration, proper of human dreaming, are substituted with purely mathematical operations between digitalized sensorial stimuli.

Reckon exploits the cooperation between algorithms: a system able to stock and analyze acoustic stimuli to generate *acoustic memories* and a parallel mechanism that re-elaborates and organizes these memories, building oneiric textures.

On the one hand, a neural network model called SampleRNN analyzes audio data collections to learn how to reconstruct the *essence* of the experienced stimuli (for example piano or guitar).
The mathematical procedure at the basis of this model, as well as the resulting sound, has much in common with the process through which we are able to mentally recall a perceptual experience, evoking its salient characteristics but omitting its meticulous details.
In fact, the sound elements present in Reckon resemble *blurred memories*, remotely evoking the main characteristics of musical instruments and natural soundscapes, but discarding their most accurate elements that would make them real.

On the other hand a *semi-entropic* apparatus controls SampleRNN and selects, re-elaborates, concatenate and overlaps sound memories to compose digital audio dreams. To perform this operation, the system auto-defines a hierarchy of complex semi-random rules through which create a *semantic evolution* of the sound material in a similar way to how happens in human biologic dreams.

## Usage

With the UI parameters you have broad control on many macro details of the generated dreams. Although a big part of the process is aleatory, so the output will be always a bit unpredictable.

### User parameters

* ```sleep_type```: *conscious* or *unconscious* . When set to *conscious*, dreams are shorter segments with a length up to 60 seconds, but you have full control over the UI parameters. *unconscious* dreams instead can have any duration, even of several minutes, but in this modality only 'fast', 'max_num_sounds', 'dream_length', 'max_episode_length', 'memories', parameters have an effect".
* ```memories```: list of sound memories that a dream or episode can contain. This gives you control over the timbre types that will be included in the dream or episode.
* ```dream_length```: length of the generated *unconscious* sound dream in minutes.
* ```max_segment_length```: maximum length of segments in a dream. With lower values, unconscious dreams will contain more different segments.
* ```max_num_sounds```: maximum number of simultaneous sounds that can occur. Larger values produce fuller mixes.
* ```density```: the sound density of the generated segments [in a 0-1 range]. Higher values for more dense mixes.
* ```score_diversity```: diversity of generated sound archetypes [in a 0-1 range]. Lower values produce mixes with sounds that are mode similar one another.
* ```timbre_diversity```: diversity of timbres selection [in a 0-1 range]. Lower values produce mixes with sounds that are mode similar one another.
* ```perc_particles```: percentage of sounds that belong to the *particle* archetype [in a 0-1 range]. Higher values produce a higher number of short and percussive sounds.
* ```global_rev_amount```: amount of reverb applied to the whole generated sound dream [in a 0-1 range]. The reverb type is randomly chosen each time.
* ```global_stretch```: Amount of global time stretching. Negative to shorten, positive to lengthen duration. You can experiment values up to hundreds.
* ```global_shift```: Amount of global pitch shifting. Negative to decrease, positive to increase pitch. You can experiment values up to hundreds.
* ```output_type```: Output audio format. Can be *wav* or *mp3*.
* ```enhance_random```: If enabled, some unpredictable parameters are set to random.
* ```complete_random```: If enabled everything is random despite what is selected in the UI.
* ```fast```: If enabled disables the most resource-demanding processes to speed up generation. It is recommended to keep this enabled.
* ```cut_silence```. If enabled, all silences longer than 5 seconds are removed from the sound dream. This may shorten the selected dream duration.
